= Media URI Parser - MURI

A simple to use media URI Parser. Pass a URI in, get helpful information out.

MURI Currently supports:
* Youtube
* Vimeo
* Flickr
* Imageshack
* Photobucket

== Installation & basic usage

Install muri as a ruby gem (you might need to run this command as root by prepending +sudo+ to it):

  $ gem install muri

Using muri is just as easy!

  a = Muri.parse('http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=blahblahblah&feature=rec-LGOUT-exp_fresh+div-1r-1-HM')
  a.service         # 'Youtube'
  a.media_id        # 'blahblahblah'
  a.original_url    # 'http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=blahblahblah&feature=rec-LGOUT-exp_fresh+div-1r-1-HM'
  a.uri             # URI object for 'http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=blahblahblah&feature=rec-LGOUT-exp_fresh+div-1r-1-HM'

Due to variations in information which can be gathered from a uri, some services provide more information than others. For example:
* All but Imageshack have a +media_api_id+, which is the ID which can be used in API calls to the related services. Typically the same as +media_id+.
  a.media_api_id  # 'blahblahblah'


* A direct media url for Youtube, Photobucket, and Imageshack (http://img#{num}.imageshack.us/img#{num}/#{NUMBER}/#{IMAGENAME} format)
  a.media_url             # 'http://www.youtube.com/v/blahblahblah'
  
* A media landing website url for Youtube, Photobucket, Imageshack, Vimeo, and Flickr 
  a.website         # 'http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=blahblahblah'
  
* Content type for Imageshack, Photobucket and Flickr URI's (flickr in the http://farm#{num}.static.flickr.com/ format)
  a.content_type    # 'jpg' (Content Type also for Imageshack and Photobucket)
    
* Thumbnails URL for Youtube Photobucket, and Flickr (flickr in the http://farm#{num}.static.flickr.com/ format)
  a.media_thumbnail
    
* Some additional information may be provided, which can be determined by looking through each filters code.
  

If an attribute is not present, muri returns +nil+.

I plan on including more services _and_ more parse information with updates. That being said, MURI is currently not production quality. Please use with caution and in development only. Thank you.

== Contact

If you would like to get in contact with me, my email is bananastalktome@gmail.com. I appreciate any information or assistance reverse-engineering media website URI's.
